Paper By - Nazmus Saquib, Ekram Hossain, and Dong In Kim

Abstract : HetNet systems ICIC Management. Comparison of strict FFR , soft FFR , FFR 3 and Optimal Static FFR Schemes.

ICIC Management in HetNets and FFR:

Strict FFR Scheme : 
1. Frequency reuse factor (FRF) : 1 for Central Region
2. FRF : N for cell - edge regions.
3. Number of sub-bands : N + 1
4. No inter-cell co-tier interference
5. Important design parameter here is : centre-zone cell radius = 0.65 * Radius of the macro cell for which the throughput is maximized.
6. The parameter R-center is obtained using Monte-Carle simulations shown in 
    T. Novlan, J. G. Andrews, I. Sohn, R. K. Ganti, and A. Ghosh, 
    “Comparison of Fractional Frequency Reuse Approaches in the OFDMA Cellular Downlink,”
    Proc. of IEEE Globecom 2010 , pp. 1–5, 6-10 Dec. 2010

7. Sub band allocation for center is K-center = [ K-band * ( R-center / R )^2 ]
8. Sub band allocation for edge cell is K-edge = [ ( K-band - K-center ) / N ]



Soft FFR Scheme :
1. It is similar to Strict FFR.
2. The center region of any cell is allowed to use sub-bands of cell-edge zone.
3. Total number of available sub-channels in a cell is divided into N sub-bands with each sub band alloted to cell-edge region.
4. Soft FFR is more bandwidth efficient than strict FFR.
5. Both center region and edge region UE's will experience interference.
6. A power control factor ( E ) is introduced for edge-zone UE to reduce inter cell interference.
7. If UE 'm' is located in center zone then transmit power on sub-channel 'k' is P-m|k and if the user is in cell-edge zone then E*P-m|k
8. Sub band allocation for edge-zone UE's are : K-edge = min( K-band/N , K-band - K-center )


FFR - 3 Scheme:
1. Coverage Area is divided into centre - zone and edge - zone including three sectors per each.
2. One part of the sub - band is solely assigned to the centre region and remaining are assigned to the subregion. 
3. A Femtos in the coverage area chooses a sub-band which is not used in the macro - sub area and also not the sub-band used in the cell-edge region of the current sector.
4. Intra - cell cross tier interference is minimized. Due to sectorizing the inter-cell cross-tier interference also reduced.
5. The performance of sectored FFR is improved by optimizing the edge zone FRF , centre zone radius and allocation of frequency resources in centre and edge zone so that overall throughput is maximized.
6. Converting into optimization problem the FRF for which the network throughput is maximized is 6.

Optimal Static FFR:
1. Here the number of sectors is 6.
2. Inter-cell interference for any cell-edge region will be from only one eNodeB.
3. Intra-cell interference also greatly reduced since there is no sub-band shared between cell-edge and centre region.


PERFORMANCE METRICS:
1. Outage Probability
2. Network throughput ( or Network - sum )
3. spectral efficiency

SINR for downlink transmission to UE X-m from eNodeB m on sub-channel k is = P*h*G/ ( N*( change in B )  +  ( Sum( P*h*G ) - neighbouring eNodeB ) + ( Sum( P*G ) - this eNodeB ) )
1. P - transmit Power
2. h - exponentially distributed channel fading power gain associated with sub-channel k
3. G - path loss associated with sub-channel between the macro and the UE.
4. N - represents Noise power spectral density
5. change in B - maximum achievable capacity for an UE X-m to achieve on sub-channel k.

Outage Probability :
1. It is defined as the  probability that the UE's instantaneous SINR on a given sub-channel k falls below the SINR threshold Y
2. It is given as P(outage) = P ( SINR-k|m < Y )

Average Network Sum Rate:
1. Sum-of-all-Users( Sum-over-all-channels ( T*C ) ) / Total Users

T - Assigned 1 if the subchannel is assigned to the users
C - Maximum Achievable capacity for UE given by ( Delta B )*log-2( 1 + Alpha * SINR-k )

Spectral Efficiency:
1. It is defined in terms of average bits per second successfully recieved by UE per unit spectrum

The graphs for different schemes are plotted. The graphs are:
1. ratio of centre-zone radius to cell-radius vs throughput in the cell.
2. No of Femtos vs avg. spectral efficiency
3. SINR Threshold vs outage probability
4, No of Femtos vs Avg. Network Sum Ratio.

Based on the graphs the conclusion is OSFFR is better than standard FFR Schemes
